ladies and gentlemen please welcome
frameworks engineer Chris Parker thank
you welcome to session 409 what's new in
cocoa it's gonna be a fast hour so I'm
gonna get right into it my name is Chris
Parker I'm a cocoa frameworks engineer
for the last three years and we're
starting with a familiar formula here
what you'll see is everything that we've
done in cocoa so far for Tiger in both
the app kit and foundation we'll be
covering a lot of new features a lot of
new significant API changes or
behavioral changes we're gonna skip the
bug fixes we're gonna hope you guys are
all going to get out there and read the
release notes for those we'll talk about
some usage patterns for some of these
new features it'll also give you some
pointers to other sessions there's a lot
of stuff in here with a lot of new api's
that actually are implemented in some
other places so starting up with the app
kit in Panther there was some enhanced
printing support to support things like
the number of pages you could put across
the page or down the page or start and
end pages and collating settings and
things like that we've added some
automatic support in the printing system
in Cocoa so that existing applications
will get some of these new features but
if you really want to do it right
there's a new application delegate
method on NS application application
print files with settings and show print
panels and this will give you an
opportunity to be able to get
information about what you're being told
to print and you'll be able to return a
value that says hey this printing up
operation succeeded it failed its
printing later that kind of thing
there's also an it's document enhanced
printing support so if you're an
estimate sub classes you can do print
document with settings show print panel
there's a delegate object you can pass
in a selector for did print selector and
your context info pointer that you'll
get back when you get this delegate
callback the settings dictionary should
be applied to the NS print info for the
print operation and there are keys for
print pages across pages down what time
to print the printer name to print on
there's a lot better fine grained
control in Cocoa now over the printing
mechanism that you get for the
information you get from from the finder
or other places and this document now
also has support for dynamic document
type
so a lot of applications are being
written now using bundles to do all of
their reading and writing which means
that they can extend the number of the
kinds of documents that they can read
and write there are a number of
different ways you can represent those
documents so you can override using to
do this using a customer out put type
customizable output type you can
override writable types for save
operation and you'd use this to limit
those types so if you've got something
in the window that can only be
represented as an RTF D you probably
don't want to write out RTF you can
return on NS array containing RTF D from
this so some data may not be represented
you can control what's actually shown in
the UI when you write this out and it's
document now and in a lot of places
throughout the applicant the app kit and
foundation you'll see this is now more
consistently using NS error so there are
new methods with error parameters so in
it with contents of URL of type and now
this by reference error pass if
something goes wrong will tell you what
went wrong in that NS error okay also
write to URL of type with error there's
an error parameter on that also again
you pass it by reference we'll try and
tell you what went wrong we're using
nsurl as our locator more consistently
throughout foundation in the kit so you
probably won't quite see so much in it
with contents of file you'll start
seeing a lot more in it with contents of
URL okay we've seen it in mail right
you're typing away on your email message
and it saves it periodically in the
drafts folder you might have three or
four drafts going on and it's document
now supports this kind of auto saving
directly so periodic auto saving of
documents you can chain you can set how
often that autosave is going to occur
using set auto saving delay there's a
new NSA vous operation type that you'll
get told about when things happen and
there's also because the auto saving
mechanism drops a copy of the document
next to the one you've got initialize
that there's an initializer for
customizing the reopening of a document
so if you want to say oh you've got an
auto saved version here you can in it
with the URL but the contents are going
to come from that auto saved document
okay and again we're providing in it
with URL with in it for URL with
contents of URL of type error and that
error parameter is going to have as much
information about what may have gone
wrong as
possible one of the things you see in
mail is as you've been working you quit
mail all those messages come back when
you fire it back up again and this
document now supports a thing called
fast logout so if you're a if you're an
assassin out of saving you can also get
fast log out of support automatically so
when fast log out will come along it'll
quit an application with no UI it'll
save Auto it'll auto save the modified
documents and then when they're up when
the application launches again it'll
open all the autosave documents for you
right where you left off so when you log
out quickly all this stuff comes back
your Nana's document app they look at
most of this for free
we've put new controls in the kit this
is an NS level indicator there's a
control and a cell variant of this there
are relevancy indicators it's the top
one here so if you're displaying search
results you'd use the relevancy
indicator a capacity indicator how full
something is the discreet capacity
indicator so it fills up in Quantum's
and a rating indicator so just like in
itunes with the stars and the dots the
rating indicator here lets you do that
and it's customizable it's customizable
four tick marks it's the small and large
ones kind of like the sliders capacity
indicators do automatic critical and
warning values so they'll turn yellow or
they'll turn red as that fills up and
gets closer to that that you know
running out of disk space indicator the
ranking indicator also supports custom
images both for the filled in rank and
the the not yet filled in rank so if you
got seven out of ten you can have seven
stars and three holo stars however you
want to do that there's a new NS date
picker control
I lost the bet I thought the applause
was going to come later there's a
control and cell variant of this it's
object value as an NS date it's
customizable so from what you're seeing
here you can edit and you can control
what things you can edit what things
you're not going to edit as well as
enabling and disabling display of
elements of the other picker they're
arranged constraints you can set a min
value in a max value and it also has
full calendar locale and timezone
support and we'll talk about some more
of that in the foundation talk in a
minute and there's also an additional
two opportunities for you to validate
the date that's in there from a delegate
method and also again you've seen it in
mail and it's token field there's a
control and cell variant of this as well
so as you type you can set it tokenizing
character and I'll break it up into
those nice little blue lozenges that
appear in the in the field so it behaves
a lot like males address fields it
supports text completion this is
actually a text view you can set your
custom character sets for tokenizing you
can also set represented objects so if
what you're putting in here really isn't
strings you can set the represented
object for each token and then have a
string representation for it show up
here and when you drag it to the
pasteboard there's actually support for
putting those representative objects on
the pasteboard there will also be
support for menus coming up so you can
attach a menu to these tokens and drop
it down and put your own actions on
those and we actually have a very short
demo here of these to walk all the way
across this huge stage though
so the new UI elements many of them are
bindable out-of-the-box I suppose I
should look at the smaller screen in
front of me and the level indicator this
is the discrete capacity level indicator
and we can set the warning value and the
critical value here somewhere up higher
as I move the value slider up you'll see
that as I cross the 50% mark within each
bar it fills in right and as we get up
here close to the warning value it
crosses over into yellow and then turns
into red so we've now completely run out
of space here and have to go buy another
hard drive the date picker so this is
just three date pickers dragged out on
from from the interface builder palette
and I can set the minimum date here
let's let's bump the the year up a
little closer to something we've got now
and pop this maximum date down and as we
adjust the the date and the main date
picker we can set the maximum minimum
values and they clamp so as I try and
exceed the values there it automatically
stops for me and the delegate would have
an opportunity to to handle these as
well so and finally token field and
token field actually is pretty slick if
we launch TextEdit here just so I can
have this up as well as I type the
default token field is set to use comma
as its separator so this let's see get a
email address here
and we have the tokens I can drag these
tokens around within the within the
token field and if I select them all I
can drag them out onto the paste on the
pasteboard into TextEdit and all of this
stuff just happens automatically this is
nib where here I've got a my main menu
nib that just drags these out as a
custom class for token field and I did a
little bit of binding stuff here for
date picker and for indicator cell and
the setup for token field is actually
pretty short so we could go back to the
slides please
so as our you eyes become more dynamic
we need support for NS animate we need
support for animation specifically in
cocoa and it's animation is the class
that supplies that so this provides
timing for animations in cocoa it does
some other things for it but it's mainly
about timing there are three modes for
this blocking non blocking and non
blocking threaded so a blocking
animation everything's going to stop all
the animations are running okay so the
non blocking animation runs in the
current run loop other events are
happening as it goes and the non
blocking threaded means that will spin
off a background thread and do the
animation back there for you well other
stuff is happening in the foreground
there's also API that supports animation
progress frame rate control as well as
the curve so if it's going to go it's
going to proceed at the same rate all
the way across the animation or if it
eases in and out you know it happens
really slowly at first speeds up and
then slow slows down again at the end so
there's a the progress API uses a thing
called progress marks so they're
checkpoints for animations and you set
the progress marks via this progress
marks and set progress marks API you
provide an NS array of floats and as the
delegate as the animation proceeds the
delegate delegate will get callbacks as
it crosses those marks so you know when
you're happy if you set up animation
progress at 50% and at 75% you'll hit
those and your delegate callback there
are also notifications for these as well
that you can listen for for Moranis
animation NS animation also allows you
to link animations so once you've got
the progress
are set on a particular animation you
can synchronize them using start when
animation reaches progress and stop one
animation reaches progress so you can
say that this animation should only
start when that one hits 25% and it
should stop when the other one hits 75%
to do this with views a lot of the view
animation stuff is pretty common you
want to do frames and and and ease
things in and out and do cross fades and
this NS view animation subclass is how
you do that so there's a dictionary that
defines the view animation behavior you
set a number of different keys the
target key the start frame key the end
frame key what kind of effect you want
whether it's a fade in or fade out and
this can change the frame and opacity
and it can be applied to both views in
Windows you initialize them using an
array of view animation so you can have
five or six different dictionaries that
represent the view animations and you
can also set them so if you have an
existing animation it's a mutable class
you can you can change the array of
animations and we actually have a quick
demo of this as well I had to switch
projects
close that
so on the demo controller now there's a
tab view in that nib and down here in
demo controller M we do some
calculations at the tab you did select
tab view item delegate moment and after
calculating the start frame and the end
frame and things like that we set up
here the animation parameters in a
dictionary so the window is going to be
the target will have a start frame and
an end frame we'll set up the animation
mm-hm
I set the blocking mode in the duration
it started so running this now as I
shift from level indicator to token
field we're starting and ending the
frame and in about four lines of code
we've got that nifty effect from system
preferences and this can also do all the
crossfade opacity so if you're fading
out to something it'll actually hide the
window or the order the window out or
hide the view automatically it's like
the next slide please
we're starting to see with those
gorgeous 30 inch displays that they
won't let me have resolution independent
UI
and we'd like to be able to do here is
allow the user to set the scale of the
interface to be as larger as small as
they want and they can make the
trade-off between detail versus screen
real estate if you're like me and you
want everything really really small
you'll be able to do that if you need
the windows a little bit larger you can
scale that up this is independent of the
display resolution okay but what does
this mean for you guys it means that you
can't make the assumption anymore that
one point is equal to one pixel
okay so the scaling factor is going to
affect some of the rectangles and events
that you get in the kid there we go
Cocco implements what we call framework
scaling and the short answer for this is
we're gonna do all the heavy lifting for
you so when you set a scale factor
you'll be able to have us do all the
view scaling automatically windows and
screen coordinates will continue to be
in pixels so when you're sizing your
windows that's in actually the screen
resolution view coordinates are in
points so it's really important now more
so than it ever used to be to make sure
you're using the correct conversion for
view to window coordinates or going the
other way if you're adding an auxilary
review there a couple places where you
may have been doing this and just sort
of getting away with the fact that it
was one-to-one and you'll actually I'd
to be very careful now about the height
of the view versus the window that
you're putting it in to resize the
window correctly and making sure that
you're getting when you get event
locations you do the translation in the
view coordinate system correctly there's
also API to be able to get around this
and do what's called application scaling
where you'll be able to control this on
an individual view basis that's we're
actually recommending that you let us do
it if you were here for the core
graphics talk I think they actually
mentioned this quartz debug now has a
user interface resolution window so if
you fire up quartz debug and you go to
the window menu it'll have one of these
in it
this represents the scale factor for
pixels per point okay and actually
taking the screen shot is a lot easier
when you bump the whole thing up two to
one and a half but these are applied to
applications F launched after the change
so you can set this up and then go ahead
and run your app and
code run you're out from the command
line and from the finder and this will
actually let it show up with a larger
menubar and bigger windows or if you're
like me smaller windows and it's bitmap
image rep now has new support for
additional image formats so we're not
just handling premultiplied rgba anymore
we now a floating-point 32-bit samples
can now take alpha as the first portion
of the sample order when we read these
images in it also deal with non
premultiplied images and there's also
JPEG 2000 support this is probably the
longest method in this entire
presentation I don't think it's the
longest method and the kit get them in
it with bitmap data planes the the
important bit down there is the NS
bitmap format bit field that actually
lets you say things like I'm loading
alpha first or I'm loading a different
format and it's graphics context you can
now specify compositing operations in NS
graphics context so these are saved and
restored along with all the other
operations of saved graphic state and
restore graphic state may have no effect
on existing things that already take
it's a composite to point with operation
that that's already handled but this
allows you to set the compositing
operation for Jarrah's NS view now
supports drawing redirection and panther
views drew to Windows or for printing
and things like that that's pretty much
the only place you could draw now you
can draw view hierarchies any view
hierarchy to an arbitrary NS graphics
context so be able to take something
like your dialog grab it into an NS
graphics context and put it on top of an
OpenGL view or something like that and
incorporate that into into other user
interface elements that may come from
other places so use display rect
ignoring capacity and ignoring opacity
in context you can get bitmap image rep
for caching display in R X that'll
return a caching appropriate bitmap
image rep and cache displaying erect to
bitmap image rep you can take the
rectangle for a given view and slam it
right into that in that bitmap image
keeping up with an SVU NS window we have
new resizing support one of the things
that you do when you resize a window is
that you're really only dirtying that
l-shaped portion in the lower right in
the right-hand side
so you're not dirtying the entire window
so we probably shouldn't draw the entire
window so valid contents is preserved in
a drag and a live resize as long as it
doesn't move relative to the upper
left-hand corner of the window so this
is enabled by default for windows so
when you drag out the windows and you'll
you'll get this behavior you can find
out you can opt out of it using set
preserves content during live resize
tell it no you can find out whether it's
doing that or not you can disable it but
it's disabled by default reviews rather
so if you override preserves content
during live resize to return yes then
it'll start doing this behavior also but
as you're resizing all this stuff you're
going to need nowhere to draw so what
changed Rek preserved during live resize
is that slot that didn't change
it's that section that didn't change get
Rex exposed during live resize you'll
get an array of four rectangles the at
the present in the seed you're only
getting at the bottom two but at most
you may actually wind up getting all
four if the view can be moved if the
view inside can be moved into the middle
of the window so this can be called
anytime during live resize and I'm after
set frame size or before the recursion
display the view hierarchy so you've got
this window where you can actually work
with it and this window now
automatically calculates the key loop so
as you add a view it's got a bunch of
sub views it will automatically
recalculate this for you you can change
this behavior using set auto recalculate
ski Lu key view loop and there are some
accessors there also you can also tell
it immediately recalculate the key view
loop now adding views to the window
recalculates the key loop so it will do
it right when the window is first
ordered in and if you don't set the
initial first-responder it's it's the
same as the default and it's based on
the order of the views in the window so
if you've been adding things and it'll
do it from that order and it's workspace
moving a little bit into the file space
now custom icon creation set icon for
file options this supports transparency
so if you've got any NS image it's got
some transparency it's got some nice
effects in it this will allow you to set
an icon on a given file there's some
compatibility options not all of our
releases the operating system support
all of these icon formats so if you tell
it to exclude quick-draw
like on creation then it's only going to
be visible the icons only be visible on
10:4 if you exclude the ten four
elements then it'll work everywhere but
you won't get the spiffy larger icons
and this supports things up to two 256
by 256 so in Panther there were tablet
events but tablets - Coco really looked
like a big special Mouse and now in in
Tiger we've introduced explicit tablet
events support so native tablet events
for Tiger so you'll get actually
proximity event so as the pen approaches
the tablet you'll actually get the event
that says oh it's getting near the
tablet tablet pointing events explicit
for that also there are subtypes for the
mouse events right click left click
stuff like that and pointer type support
so a lot of these pens have both a pen
tip and an eraser right so you're
actually gonna be able to tell the
difference between those in the event
hierarchy there are accessors for most
of the common tablet properties these
are things like pressure right so when
you when you stroke the pen you actually
can find out how hard the user is
pressing on the yeah on the on the
tablet you'll get XY absolutely XY & z
positions they also find out how whether
the pen is tilted if it supports that
rotation tangential pressure and these
are their anis responder methods for
tablet point and tablet proximity so you
can hook this right into the responder
chain and handle those at a higher level
than the view that you may be looking at
so NS tree controller hierarchical data
structures the API parallels NS array
controller so if you've got things that
are that are a tree structure you can
now do tree binding with this he uses NS
index pass from foundation we'll talk
about that in a minute that defines how
to find something in a tree the content
can be set to the root of the tree of
the model object so you just hook this
up right to the root and it'll it'll
worry about finding all the children and
it uses KBC to find the children of the
model object so set children key set
count key there's a an opportunity for
performance there insert object to
arrange object at a range object index
paths you can provide that so that you
can insert objects into the tree of
specific locations the implication here
is that this is the mechanism at NS
outline view and NS bruh
are used to be now fully bindable if
you've been waiting for that this is
your big chance
and as tableview now has better Auto
resizing support for its columns so we
actually take into account things like
proportional resizing for initial
positions of columns SEC column Auto
resizing style there's a flag that you
can set on that we now support custom
tooltips and then this table for you so
if you want different tool tips on
different cells and rows you can get
those now by having your delegate
returned and appropriate string from
table view tooltip for cell rect table
column row mouse location it's still
shorter than that one for Menace bitmap
image wrap and finally an NS table View
variable row Heights and Tiger so your
delegate can actually say that the
height of the row is a specific float
and you can note that the height of the
rows with a specific set of index has
changed so and its toolbar item now has
some automatic validation techniques it
used to be the toolbar relied on NS
window and window updates in order to do
its validation work and now validation
can be done in a per item basis so you
can set individual tool items to say yes
this auto validates notice doesn't you
can also avoid overflow with NS toolbar
items in some cases in your toolbar you
may actually want a particular button to
be on the toolbar all the time right so
when you resize the window and that
overflow menu gets generated you can
actually make sure that some items will
always be visible but in keeping with
our theme that the user is king here the
users may want different items visible
themselves so even though you may want
something up jammed up there all the
time they may want something different
there are some priorities you can set
using set visibility priority the visit
the standard low high end user
priorities ok the user one is the most
you should not use anything higher than
that you can define any range in here
these are defined in the kit headers you
can take a look at it but standard means
that basically you're letting us do it
if you assign something low it will be
one of the first things that gets pushed
off in the in the overflow menu and if
you do something high it'll stay up and
not get not get overflowed
so how did this slide wind out there and
a spawn descriptor is now the primary
font reference for the kid and this
replaces postscript font names as the
method for matching and substitution as
well as we do we do cascading with this
now too so you can set up different font
descriptors representing various
attributes without necessarily having to
specify the font itself texting controls
now support based writing Direction
support this is baseline this can be
specified in individual controls
there's IB support forthcoming for this
so that if you're fortunate to have
localizers working for you they can set
the writing direction on the controls in
the various nibs the default setting is
the natural writing direction based on
the content so if you've got a string
that is in a space that would be
right-to-left this will get picked up in
that way automatically you can set it
explicitly using the base writing
Direction accessors and specific ranges
and you can also change the base writing
direction it'll toggle back and forth NS
text view now supports multiple
selection so there are new selection
primitives in the text system for
multiple ranges there are also some new
delegate methods and they take arrays of
ranges rather than just them in this
single range there's a new fine panel
action too you can also have the fine
panel actions are hooked up to do things
like select all of the things that match
all at once
existing methods if you've got code that
is going to operate in a textview that
has this attribute set it'll return the
first sub range so things will continue
to work for you you're only going to
find out about the first sub range it's
selected in all of these the text system
now supports tables
so this is actually TextEdit with an
HTML imported table here and this is
handled through some new classes as well
as lists text system also supports lists
the tables new classes are NS text block
and NS text table block the lists allow
you to do things like customize the
marker format so you can have one dot or
you can have a bullet or things like
that
these appear on attributes on the
paragraphs and they're also conveniences
for these NS attributed string so you'll
be able to pick these out of your
strings and render them how you like but
the text system will take care of all
the tables and stuff for you now we've
also started to incorporate and keeping
up with spotlight and things like that
new document metadata so there are new
document attributes in our RTF files
that we support in the RTF reader for
title what company subjects authors if
you're fortunate to have an editor who
takes a look at your stuff you can set
the editor document attribute type all
of these are available to check for in
the spotlight api's as well as right off
the document attributes and it's
typesetter I'm taking a lot of the stuff
that was in the 80s type side of the
Apple type system so types that are
moved it up is to the defaults that
types out our system now in in Tiger and
you'll be able to do things like
applicant concrete subclasses with your
own layout engines and there's new
access to a number of ranges and
attributes I could talk for an hour on
the text system but personally I don't
know enough about it and you guys don't
have an hour to sit here for it but
there's another our advanced development
with cocoa text session 437 on Friday
Doug Davidson will be talking about that
and he'll go into all of the tables
lists and everything for for cocoa text
so let's talk about foundation move down
a step foundation now includes a new
class NS XML document
this is a Dom based API you can
initialize this from strings and other
types of you if you have a URL or if you
have an XML if you have an NS string
that contains XML you can initialize it
from that you can also initialize it
right off the network with an it with
contents of URL there are options to set
here things like fidelity and and what
kind of preservation you want stuff like
that it provides a Dom like model so you
can find out how many children are in a
particular node what the children are
insertion deletion things like that it
also supports a lot of querying and
transformation behaviors so XPath annex
query or to query formats that allow you
to ask questions of the document and
find out more information from that so
you can actually say give me all of the
nodes that have attributes of this
particular value so the XPath nodes for
XPath error and error will get returned
to you if something goes wrong objects
4x query X Aquarius is a technology that
we've been putting into things like
Sherlock and stuff like that we also
have XSLT support so if you have a Dom
tree and you have an XSLT transform you
can just ask for object by applying XSLT
and you'll get back the appropriate item
so that may be an X and s XML document
depending on what you're asking for in
the transform there is a session on this
as well easy and powerful XML processing
with cocoa that's a Friday at 10:30 so
if you're still here you should probably
go take a look at that and it's gonna be
an excellent talk NS locale now with
with a lot more localization information
and things like that this is the
preferred mechanism and foundation to
get localization information out of the
system so a lot of the things that you
would have gone to nsuserdefaults for
you're gonna go to NS locale for now
there's a lot of general information
that's stored in the NS locale class and
it's you can ask for the available
locale identifiers there ISIL language
codes country codes currency codes you
can also ask for all the components from
a specific locale identifier and once
you've got a locale you can get
information from it so object for key
will tell you basically the same kind of
thing localization information you're
getting from again from nsuserdefaults
display name four key values some of
these
maybe localized in their particular
languages and that's what this display
named for key value method is for so you
can get information that represents the
actual localized value for those in
continuing with this and it's date
format or now has a number of new
capabilities there are a lot more
settings to configure in an estate
format or you can go through and and
toggle all sorts of switches in it this
is also replacing a lot of the
functionality you would have gotten from
nsuserdefaults
it's based on the CF date formatter
stuff that we've got done in
corefoundation that's actually based on
the international components for Unicode
one side affected this is there's a new
format string available in date
formatter so some of the things that
you've been doing you'll have to change
a little bit in order to get this format
to work correctly so if you've been
formatting dates in particular way you
may have to tweak that a little bit
there's a compatibility mode
applications linked on Panther will
actually get this compatibility
information and you can set it so that
the formatter behavior will act the old
way versus the new way so if you've got
existing code you want to make sure that
it's actually going to continue to work
the way you expect it you can use this
set format or behavior method and this
number formatter also has a number of
new capabilities there are new styles in
formatting you can format decimal
currency or scientific style so you can
spell things out actually there are a
number of new settings for this for
group separators whether you're showing
decimal and group separators prefix and
suffixes for numbers as well as text
attributes for some of those values okay
and this also has compatibility mode
again if you've got existing code it'll
continue work the old way but this is
new for for tiger we spend a lot of time
trying to do this we're deprecating as
many c string methods that do not have
encoding arguments as we can so you know
you've got a blob of data but you don't
have any any encoding information and
Stan getting a string from that it sort
of fraught with a little bit of
guesswork and peril so some new methods
will report errors in encoding
conversion there are a lot of new
methods for the C string encoding we
deprecated a bunch put a bunch in with
encoding support and it turns out we
actually have less API than we started
with
so you can convert using a specific
encoding using an it with C string
encoding
there's also string
coding sensing so when you in it with
the contents of a URL we're gonna pick
out and try to figure out what encoding
that is and you'll get an error back
cool you can also specify the encoding
on the output so when you write to the
URL if you specify an encoding that it
can't do you'll get an error back about
that also and we're again we're trying
to put as many places in the in
foundation the kit where we're using
this error parameter to be able to allow
you to return more information up to the
user so and that's net service has some
new features one of the things that
developers did a lot and it I have to
admit that's partially my fault because
I did it in a sample code oops was
leaving the resolve open if you leave
the resolve open for a long time that
generates a lot of network traffic so
now we're doing is we're allowing you to
specify timeout for resolves so you can
say resolve for five seconds usually if
something's gonna happen it's gonna
happen in that five seconds so if they
haven't gotten a response back it
probably isn't coming so there's also
text record access so for whatever
reason the the old gettin set protocol
specific information methods are
actually deprecated now an NS net
service and these are what we you should
be using instead set text record data
and text record data you just send us
data blobs there's some convenience is
to shift things back and forth and s
note service but this will allow you to
be able to put that information out so
that other rendezvous enabled
applications can see that it's a little
little data payload in each net service
that you can put in and you can monitor
those for when they change so this is
actually some very similar to the
mechanism that I Chet uses in order to
update your status and on rendezvous and
update your your status string all right
you can do the same kind of thing now
with NS net service using start
monitoring and stop monitoring and
there's a new net service delegate did
update txt record data where when the
remote service updates is text record
you'll get the data back in that
callback
NS index path and this index path is a
way that you represent sequences of
indexes so it'll be something like 1 dot
3.5 which is the fifth child of the
third child or the first element in the
the path it's for navigating a tree of
objects and this is partly how NS tree
controller gets a lot of its work done
okay and there are also accessors for
this index of position and get indexes
this will allow you to be able to pick
out individual indexes along the way the
mechanism if you have to use this
directly that's fine but it's it's
mainly a behind-the-scenes addition
specifically for tree controller so
you've heard me jumping up and down
about NS error for awhile we specified a
new error domain for the cocoa
frameworks so NS cocoa error domain as
much as possible can be the area that we
use the error domain that we use it may
contain underlying errors from other
systems so if a file not found error
occurred way down here will bubble that
up but will also include the underlying
NS errors as keys and in the dictionary
as we were trying to do before this
cocoa error domain is specifically for
use with foundation in the kit we've
defined a number of error codes in epcot
errors and foundation errors in order to
to describe all of these there are some
new methods for richer error recovery so
localize description was already there
and that's that's what you should be
using to describe the problem that
occurred the localized recovery
suggestion is an opportunity for you to
say something like oh you tried to save
a document and the disk is full and
however you say that in a number of
different languages the localized
Recovery Options is an array it returns
an array and this should be a list of
actions that the user can take in order
to solve their problem that you may
actually handle for them once they hit
an appropriate button these should be
designed specifically for presentation
to the user ok so what you do with a
domain and code is sort of up to you but
these descriptions should be handled
specifically for showing to the user and
we're actually trying to work on a
couple of interesting ways to be able to
bubble this all the way up through into
the kit and and perhaps handle errors in
a more graceful dynamic fashion so
spotlight metadata most of the files and
you discs have a number of different
attributes right creator creation time
content type images have sizes and
widths and Heights and DPI's and things
like that one of the things that we'd
like to be able to do is find them
absolutely as fast as possible right and
as files change as they come onto the
discus they leave the disk we want to
find out about those changes as much as
fast as we can
one of the ways that we do this is now
with NS metadata query so this is the
cocoa API that surrounds the spotlight
API that Steve was using in this demo
and that I believe there's a talk about
soon in the next couple of days it uses
and it's predicate and this predicate
lives up in a different framework it
lives up in core data it's an expression
that evaluates to true or false given a
set of objects so you'll construct a
predicate that will define the kinds of
things that you're searching for and
this finds files matching that predicate
and then it stores the results so you
touch off the query and it's actually
going to go out and find all this stuff
and it's gonna hang on these results for
you and it can group these results and
attributes so it can actually hang on to
all of these and say okay well I've got
this list of results and I'll sort them
according to their creator or their
author it can also answer some specific
questions about the results set but most
importantly it's actually a bindable
model object so once you set off one of
these queries you can actually hook it
up an interface builder and bind the
write to it so you can have a very
dynamic user interface setting up a
query is very simple you create it with
a lock in it you set the queries
predicate then you start the query you
can optionally stop the query but if you
leave the query open it will continue to
update its results so a set predicate
start query and start stop query this
has happens actually on the current run
loop the run loop that you instantiated
the object on and you can handle the
results either by direct access or
binding so there's actually an accessor
for result count and resultant indexes
so you can actually ask it specifically
for individual results and at specific
locations or use bind to the results
array
okay the results that has a value list
and the value list is something like if
I've searched for are all the RTS on my
machine and I come up with 15 probably
up a lot more but if I come up with only
15 the night had three individual
authors it might be me and I'll leave my
boss and mark the guy who works down the
hall so those three doc knows three
authors work on those 15 documents
that's one way that I can group those
documents or I might have 250 mp3s and
that I searched for and and they might
only be in three genres or four you know
rock pop classical and something else
I'd say country but I'd be terribly
embarrassed results can be sorted by the
NS to metadata query one of the things
that happens is the query is going to go
out it's gonna do all this work it's
gonna find all these files on your disk
but having since the query has all of
this information about it you can tell
the query to sort it and this is
actually a big performance win the query
knows all this information it can do all
the work to sort it as the results come
in and then when you actually go ahead
and display this in the in your table
view or in your outline view it's taking
care of a lot of the heavy lifting for
the sorting for you results can also be
grouped by their attribute values all
right so again those those country mp3s
can get packed into one group along with
and then all the rock ones and then all
the classical ones NS metadata query
also supports asynchronous updates okay
so as if you leave the query open as
files come and go from your disk this
thing gets updated so the queries go
through a phase when you first create
them you touch off the start query
there's a gathering phase that's going
on is finding as many results as it can
initially and it's going to drop it's
gonna return those results to you if you
continue to let the query run new
results matching the predicate will just
appear and you'll get a callback for
that and files no longer matching the
predicate will disappear so you have all
this bound all this stuff sort of just
happens automatically right there are
some implications for this you should be
as lazy as possible when you're using
this so when you get some of these
notifications that say hey my results
that changed
should do as little processing as
possible because the idea here is that
you're providing a dynamic look at the
file system a window into what's
happening as things come and go okay and
actually I have a short demo here as
well so if we could cut over
so I have in my nib
a simple field here with a start button
and a table view and if we look at the
table view here we'll see in the table
columns portion of things that I've got
these bound to some identifiers this
identifier is actually this KMD item FS
name is actually in the met in the
spotlight framework and this is a these
will be defined possibly in foundation
as well but the path here is the path
name of the file on disk and that's
actually bound to KMD item path I've got
my little results control in my results
array controller here and those bindings
are set up to the content array of my
results and if we take a look at the
code here for brief moment okay you'll
see this in the release notes this is a
way that we can control what the
notifications are that you'll get for
various things like the initial
notification count and time the progress
notification and update notifications
for how often you get callbacks you
can't really crank these down but you
can extend the time you don't want to
get these notifications a lot because
it'll affect your performance I have a
sender action here set up to toggle the
query so if I'm being told to start here
I'm going to set up my predicate so that
I'm looking for filesystem names that
are matching a query what I typed into
the query string query field string I
create this NS predicate and then set
the predicate on the query I actually
skipped a step here in that when this
thing wakes up from the nib it allocate
and in its itself we set these
parameters in order to handle the
notifications and then here I'm actually
taking advantage of the fact that query
is going to set these sort descriptors
and it's going to set up an initial sort
for the filesystem name based on an
ascending sort I've added some
notifications in here that I believe
actually I'm driving the will change and
did change
right here but you can bind to this
directly and then I just set the
delegate start the query and change my
button tile there's not a whole lot of
code here but it does actually do stuff
there may be more things on this disk
than I thought
hopefully I won't have to show you the
crash report or either
I think this g5 has a bigger hard drive
than my laptop I'm not sure
I'd go back and look at the code but
you've already seen
great I joked I was gonna have a John
Cameron Swayze here moment and have to
say I don't get it it worked and
rehearsal but it did it worked in on
herself you'll just I suppose have to
take my word for it but that's the P
list but again it's mainly just making
sure that you set the predicate up
initialize the sort descriptors and take
care of starting the query so
unfortunately this is just a fizzled out
on me here but there are a number of
other api's there we go
that are coming out and tiger okay one
of them is the core data framework core
data framework provides object lifecycle
management this is a model driven system
this is a way to manage persistence both
in getting stuff up off of disk into
memory and getting it back out to disk
there's a custom subclass and it's
persistent document that's been defined
that handles this this will also allow
you to do a significant amount of UI
synchronization with a lot of very tight
bindings integration okay one of the
side effects of using core data is
automatic undo and redo and this is
actually a new framework that's on tiger
this is under the cocoa umbrella okay so
if you're linking the cocoa framework
you're getting this for free and this
provides everything from faulting
objects and noun so here are 10,000
objects and your honor looking at 50 of
them it'll take care of keeping only
those 50 in memory and handling all of
the rest as dynamic objects its handles
all sorts of things like both actual
object inheritance as well as entity
inherent and there's a go back here
there's actually an introduction of core
data talk this is andreas wankers team
that's a session for 18 Wednesday at
2:00 the Qt kit there's new QuickTime
kit on tiger providing objective-c api's
new things for classes for QuickTime
media for QT movie movie view track
media stuff like that there's an IB
palette for this and this actually
completely adopts the cocoa API model
using delegates and notifications you
don't have to drop into idle proxxon FS
specs and anything like that it also
covers media exporter next
and this is actually Thursday session
two to 14 at 9:00 a.m. it's gonna be a
talk about that the instant-message
framework provides present services so
when your buddies change there's online
status availability methods for getting
all the Buddy information out of out of
the system provides official art for the
present sets those a little jelly
gumdrops that are green and yellow and
red it'll map 80 persons and aim handles
automatically and this is actually the
same mechanism that I chat uses in order
to get its work done so you can actually
add this to your applications now you
saw in the demo core image framework
provides image processing that's going
to push all the filtering and transforms
and effects and things like that off on
the graphics card so if you really
wanted to hear those fans fire up in the
PowerBook you've got an opportunity to
do it in cocoa here right it uses the
graphics card to do the work there will
be api's to convert between NS images
and CI images and NS colors and CI
colors so you can do all those sepia
tones and the things if you want to make
all the electrics libros you want you
can please read the release notes
there's a lot of bug fixes described in
the release notes a lot of pointers to
new behaviors a lot of different
techniques for handling a lot of these
new behaviors as well as api's that I
didn't even mention here there's a lot
of stuff in cocoa the documentation is
now in the I believe on the tiger seat
it's an ATC reference library
documentation cocoa the release notes
are also in a similar location and the
release notes folder there for cocoa
Foundation and for the app kit okay if
you have any questions about this stuff
cocoa feedback a tap group that Apple
comm there's Matt Formica who is the
cocoa development tools evangelist and
John Randolph everybody's favorite DTS
engineer